Recently, I had the amazing opportunity to participate in the Karriere Quantum camp in Rome. Run jointly by the Goethe Institut and Tüftel Lab and sponsored by the German government, I was lucky enough to be among one of 20 students selected from more than 140 applicants across Europe to attend.  

Before we could eat pizza and ice-cream in Rome courtesy of the German government, we attended online German lessons and were lucky to have presentations from guests including Ricarda Nugk from Siemens and Monika Adams from Zeiss. These particularly sparked my interest, and I enjoyed learning about tools currently used in industry such as Simcenter Amesim and the complex processes that go into manufacturing silicon chips. 

Our time in Rome was split between improving our German and Quantum workshops from Tüftel lab which culminated in working in teams to create projects using our newfound knowledge. We also were lucky to visit sights including the Enrico Fermi Museum and Vatican Secret Archives. Highlights included the panel discussion and presentation on the final day and the opportunity to talk to Dr Dimitrios Gkiatas, a current researcher in the field, where he emphasized the importance of his teaching role. I definetely agree that bridging the gap between research and teaching is important, after all, there’s no point in making a scientific discovery if you can’t explain or teach it to anyone. 

My group made up of newfound friends from Estonia and Finland created a project based on the bb84 protocol for quantum key distribution for secure encryption. To aid us, the workshop provided materials for rapid prototyping, from electronics to everyone’s favourite scientific building material – Lego! 

I knew that this would be an incredible opportunity, but upon completion, I can’t put into words how truly enriching the experience was. I’ve made lifelong friends (I may have to go on a European road trip), gone from 0 to having a basic understanding (which is rather difficult) of quantum physics and leveled up my German not only in terms of my language ability, but also in terms of my knowledge and awareness on the opportunities in Germany. Well done to the Goethe Institut and Tüftel Lab, you’ve delivered on all your aims and more.  
